New routes page copy (#2605)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree.md

    Improve your subject knowledge : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/subject-knowledge-enhancement"
    Who do you want to teach? : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-course
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/events-near-you
navigation: 20.05
navigation_title: If you have a degree
navigation_description: Find out how to get QTS if you have a degree or you’re studying for one now. There are different options you can choose.
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training
  - school direct
  - pgce
  - pgde
---

You need [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/what-is-qts) to teach in most primary, secondary and special schools in England. Once you have a degree you can get QTS through [teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training). 

Postgraduate teacher training courses usually take 9 months full time, in line with the academic year, or 18 to 24 months part time. 

If you’re not from the UK, find out about [training to teach in England](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student).

## Types of teacher training

> Your teacher training course might be led by a university, school, college or group of schools. There are different teacher training types, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your teacher training course might be led by a university, school, college or group of schools. There are different teacher training types, including:
```

Rather than saying there are different types, maybe it is more like 'You may/will see these referred to as....' (reworded!)

* school centred initial teacher training (SCITT)
* university-led
* postgraduate apprenticeship
* School Direct (fee-paying)
* School Direct (salaried)

> The difference between teacher training courses will depend on your teacher training provider, rather than what type of teacher training you do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between teacher training courses will depend on your individual teacher training provider.
```
individual/chosen?

Again, I think type is really misleading here - we are inferring difference

> All teacher training courses follow the same [core content framework (CCF)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/initial-teacher-training-itt-core-content-framework). You’ll spend most of your time in school placements with some theoretical learning, regardless of which type of training you choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All teacher training courses follow the same [core content framework (CCF)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/initial-teacher-training-itt-core-content-framework). You’ll spend most of your time in school placements with some theoretical learning, regardless of which course you choose.
```

The address of your teacher training provider may not be where you spend most of your time. For example, your teacher training provider might be a university, but you’ll spend most of your time in placement schools.

## Decide if you want a PGCE or PGDE

All primary and secondary postgraduate teacher training courses lead to QTS. Some also offer a [postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE) or a postgraduate diploma in education (PGDE)](/what-is-a-pgce).

You do not need a PGCE or PGDE to become a teacher. 

It can be helpful to have a PGCE or PGDE if you plan on doing a master’s degree because it gives you credits towards one. 

## Fund your training

Courses usually cost £9,250 or more for [international candidates](/non-uk-teachers). 

If you train to teach certain secondary subjects, you may be eligible for a [scholarship or bursary](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships).

No matter what course you choose, you can apply for a student loan.

[Learn about funding](/funding-your-training).

## Check your eligibility 

Your degree grade can affect your eligibility for courses. Teacher training providers often ask for a 2:2, but some ask for a third or pass.

> If you need help understanding degree grades, [chat to us online](/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree#talk-to-us). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need help understanding degree grades, [call us or chat to us online](/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree#talk-to-us). 
```

The Candidate Experience team would rather people call if possible as the contact centre are then able to sign people up directly for support services.

> ### Find out if you're eligible for a salary  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find out if you're eligible for a salary  
```
Should we say '... salary while you train' or '... a salaried course' to make it clear this relates to training rather than teaching?!

    text: |-
      <p>There's still time to apply and start teacher training this September.</p>
      <p><a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find your postgraduate teacher training course now</a>.</p>
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training
  - school direct
  - pgce
  - qts
---

$still-time-to-apply$

> You need a degree to teach in primary, secondary and special schools in England.

Author: Checking with Phoebe for wording about having any degree

> You need a degree to teach in primary, secondary and special schools in England.

Author: Phoebe's said she's not sure about the "any degree", because providers prefer people to have a degree in a relevant subject. Instead, she's advised something along the lines of:

"You need a bachelor's degree (honours) to teach in primary, secondary and special schools in England. This doesn't have to be a bachelor's degree in teaching. You'll need to demonstrate that you have adequate subject knowledge in your chosen subject."

Teacher training courses usually take 9 months full-time, or 18 to 24 months part-time.

If you’re not from the UK, find out about [training to teach in England as a non-UK citizen](/non-uk-teachers).

## What qualifications can I get through teacher training?

You can do teacher training to get:

* qualified teacher status (QTS)
* qualified teacher status (QTS) with postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)

You need QTS to teach in most primary, secondary and special schools in England.

Even in schools where you do not need QTS (for example, academies), most teachers still have it.

You can also do a teacher training course to just get a postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE).

If you just get a PGCE without QTS, you will not be able to teach in most primary, secondary and special schools.

Getting a PGCE can help you:

* get a better understanding of teaching practice and theory
* earn up to 60 credits towards a master’s - you may want to do a master’s in education, for example, for your professional development
* teach in other countries

Getting QTS without PGCE may mean that:

> * your course is shorter

Author: Checking with Phoebe

* your course fees are lower
* you submit fewer assignments

[Find out more about QTS](/what-is-qts).

[Find out more about PGCE](/what-is-a-pgce).

## Non-salaried teacher training

Most teacher training courses are non-salaried. This means that you have to pay course fees and will not earn a salary while you train.

Fees are usually around £9,250, and can be higher for [international students](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student).

If you train to teach certain secondary subjects, you may be eligible for a [scholarship or bursary](/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries).

No matter what course you choose, you can apply for a student loan.

[Learn about how you could fund your teacher training](/funding-and-support).

### Teacher training providers

Your teacher training course might be provided by a university, school, college or group of schools. Your course might be referred to as:

* school-centred initial teacher training (SCITT)

> * School Direct (there are salaried and non-salaried School Direct courses)

Reviewer: Would it be better to say School Direct (non-salaried) here as you talk about School Direct (salaried) in the next section?

Author: I felt like it might be good to explicitly point out here that there are both salaried and non-salaried School Direct courses (advisers said it was a common misconception that users have that all School Direct courses are salaried)

The content of SCITT and School Direct programmes are broadly the same.

Some providers have different course structures and have placements in different kinds of schools, such as special schools. Talk to your provider to find out what they can offer you.

> [Find teacher training providers](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/).

Reviewer: Would we be better talking about courses rather than providers here - Find is 'Find postgraduate teacher training **courses**?

I know you can search by provider but people generally don't (I'll send you the dashboard which shows this)

### Choose your provider

One of the best ways to decide between providers is to contact them.

Ask them what a typical day looks like, how you’ll be supported, and if they have any open days or [teacher training events](/events) you can attend.

### Find out where you’ll spend your time

You should talk to teacher training providers about where your school placements and theoretical learning will be. The address of your teacher training provider may not be where you spend most of your time. For example, your teacher training provider might be a university, but you’ll spend most of your time in placement schools.

[Find out more about what your teacher training will be like](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).

## Salaried teacher training

Salaried courses are sometimes available for specific candidates, such as if you’re working as an unqualified teacher or teaching assistant. These include School Direct (salaried) courses and postgraduate teaching apprenticeships.

These are in high demand and very competitive. Places fill up quickly.

You should check your eligibility with the teacher training provider before you apply.

> [Find salaried teacher training](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/) by applying the ‘only show courses that come with a salary’ filter.

Reviewer: From an accessibility perspective, this link text is slightly misleading as it implies that clicking on that link will take you to a pre-filtered set of results - people using screen readers could open the link without reading the rest of the sentence. Is there anyway we could reword this (I know it is difficult!)

## Teaching qualifications

You can do a postgraduate teacher training course to get:

* qualified teacher status (QTS)
* postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)
* qualified teacher status (QTS) with postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)

You need QTS to teach in most primary, secondary and special schools in England.

You do not need a PGCE to teach, but it can help you:

* get a better understanding of teaching practice and theory
* earn up to 60 credits towards a master’s - you may want to do a master’s in education, for example, for your professional development
* teach in other countries

[Find out more about QTS](/what-is-qts).

[Find out more about PGCE](/what-is-a-pgce).

## Non-salaried teacher training

Most teacher training courses are non-salaried. This means that you have to pay course fees and will not earn a salary while you train.

Fees are usually around £9,250, and can be higher for [international students](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student).

If you train to teach certain secondary subjects, you may be eligible for a [scholarship or bursary](/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries).

> No matter what course you choose, you can apply for a student loan.

Reviewer: Should we say that you can get a student loan for this even if you've already had a student loan previously? (I think that's right - will need checking!). I think this has come up in UR quite a bit - that people don't realise they can get another loan for ITT
